# Adolescent-Friendships-and-Substance-Use-Homophily_Network-Analysis

Friendships are very important to all of our lives, but we rarely stop to think about why we are friends with certain people and not others. To the extent that we do think about this, it tends to be restricted to an individual level in which we might think about why we are friends with one specific person or not friends with another specific person. However, we rarely consider friendship on a larger scale. In general, how do people organize themselves into friend groups? What factors are related to whether or not a friendship forms between two people, and whether that friendship persists over time? These questions do not have simple answers, but we can get some insight into the social processes associated with friendship through social network analysis. Social network analysis combines graph theory with sociology in order to understand the social factors related to interactions within networks, especially networks of people or agencies. In this project, I analyze a network of fifty adolescent students at a school in Scotland in the 1990s. Through this analysis, we learn how students’ friendships generally seemed to change over the course of three years at a school. We can also see how students’ substance use and participation in sports were related to their friendships. Based on the idea of homophily, I hypothesized that students would tend to be friends with people who were similar to them in these attributes, and the results of my analysis largely supported this hypothesis. 
